---
category : blog
tags : [MOTODEV, Android, Release]
title: MOTODEV Studio for Android 1.1 is now available
hidden: true
---
**NOTE:** This blog post was originally hosted on the **Motorola Developers (MOTODEV)**. site. That site is no longer online. I've made every attempt to preserve the original content with only formatting changes to fit this site.

---

Hello MOTODEV Studio users,

An new version of MOTODEV Studio for Android is available today, 4
January 2010. This update provides support for the Android 2.0.1
(Eclair) SDK and includes version 0.9.5 of the Google ADT plugins.
Support is also available for the Ophone 1.5 (Beta) SDK and JIL Widget
SDK. Version 1.1 is only available as a full install. A description of
the update and how to install it is available on the MOTODEV discussion
boards at
*http://community.developer.motorola.com/t5/MOTODEV-Studio-for-Android/Announcement-MOTODEV-Studio-fo...*

Thank you for using MOTODEV Studio for Android.

Eric Cloninger

Sr. Product Manager

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Content of Discussion Board Post &lt;&lt;&lt;&lt;**

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Hello Everyone,

I hope that 2010 is shaping up to be a great year for everyone. While
everyone was enjoying a few days rest, the MOTODEV elves were busily
working to make Android development even easier. I'm pleased to announce
that MOTODEV Studio 1.1 is now available for download.

MOTODEV Studio for Android 1.1 supports the Android 2.0.1 SDK and
includes the ADT 0.9.5 plugins. The 1.1 version is only available as a
full download and not as an update. You should uninstall any previous
versions of MOTODEV Studio for Android prior to installing the latest
version. Release notes, installation instructions, and the installer are
available on the MOTODEV download site.

The changes to MOTODEV Studio for Android version 1.1 are twofold.
First, we wanted to roll up the bug fixes that we've made since October.
We're also beginning to provide support for the Ophone 1.5 (Beta) SDK
and JIL Widget SDK. If you plan to develop applications for either of
these SDKs, you should read the installation instructions to understand
the correct way(s) to install them as they are different from the
Android SDK installation.

**Android 2.0.1 SDK**

The ADT 0.9.5 plugins have a new mechanism for installing the Android
SDK from prior versions. After installing MOTODEV Studio 1.1, you will
need to use "Window-&gt;Android SDK and AVD Manager" to find and install
the 2.0.1 SDK from Google's site. This is different from previous
versions of MOTODEV Studio.

If you have any problems with the update or other questions or comments
about MOTODEV Studio for Android, please post your feedback in the
MOTODEV Studio Discussion board.

Thank you for using MOTODEV Studio for Android.

Eric Cloninger

Sr. Product Manager, MOTODEV Studio for Android

Eclipse Sequoyah Project Lead
