---
category : blog
tags : [MOTODEV, Android]
title: A special thanks and Android tools survey
hidden: true
---
**NOTE:** This blog post was originally hosted on the **Motorola Developers (MOTODEV)**. site. That site is no longer online. I've made every attempt to preserve the original content with only formatting changes to fit this site.

---

Hello everyone,

I'd like to take a moment to thank everyone who has taken the time to
download and install *MOTODEV Studio for Android* . I hope our product
has made development of Android apps easier and has everyone more
productive. I'm also grateful for those who have taken the time to let
us know when they find problems by reporting them on the *MOTODEV
Discussion Boards* .

The last year and a half has seen us go from a beta to a stable product
through 6 major releases and several interim updates. We've added
features for *handling SQLite databases* , *localizing apps to other
languages* with a useful multi-language editor, and *developing native
apps* with C & C++. We've also localized MOTODEV Studio to *three
languages* along with the installation guide, and release notes. All
this, in addition to several major updates to the Android platform, has
kept us very busy. For 2011, we're planning new releases of MOTODEV
Studio and regular updates to our *App Validator* , which highlights
inconsistencies in applications before they become problems for users.

I can look at server logs and analytics to see how many people download
MOTODEV Studio, but I don't really know what people do with the product
once they've installed it. I'd like to understand what features of
MOTODEV Studio are important to users and what things we could do to
make developers lives easier.

So today, I'm here to ask a favor. I would like to ask anyone who
develops for Android or is interested in developing for Android to take
a short survey. It's about 20 questions and it should take less than 10
minutes to complete. When the survey is complete, I hope to have a
better understanding of everyone who uses the product and how we can
serve them better.

The survey link is: *http://www.surveymonkey.com/s/Motorola_apptools*

![original.png](/assets/images/{{ page.id }}/original(1).jpg)

Once again, thank you for using MOTODEV Studio and we wish you all the
best in 2011.

Regards

Eric
