---
category : blog
tags : [MOTODEV, Android]
title: MOTODEV Studio videos on YouTube
hidden: true
---
**NOTE:** This blog post was originally hosted on the **Motorola Developers (MOTODEV)**. site. That site is no longer online. I've made every attempt to preserve the original content with only formatting changes to fit this site.

---

Hello everyone,

I'm excited to announce that we've recently created a video channel for
MOTODEV Studio on YouTube. The details with a link to the channel are at
the *MOTODEV blog* .

Thank you for using MOTODEV Studio.

Eric

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Content of Blog Post &lt;&lt;&lt;&lt;**

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Hello everyone!

I hope you are enjoying the World Cup as much as we are. There's a lot
happening these days and it's not just football that has us excited. The
announcement of the Droid X by Motorola on June 23 is part of the
massive movement toward Android. When paired with the exciting new
features in Froyo, it's a great time to be developing mobile apps.

The Motorola Developer program (MOTODEV) is on top of these new releases
with tutorials, new tools, and specifications. Our goal is to reduce the
barriers that slow you down, so that you can write great applications.
As the Product Manager for MOTODEV Studio for Android, I'm always
looking for things that we can do to make your lives easier whether it's
creating new features in the tools or writing sample code.

Today, I'm happy to announce that we've created a MOTODEV Studio for
Android video playlist on YouTube. In this playlist, I demonstrate
features in MOTODEV Studio. I have more videos under production and I
will publish them to the video playlist every few weeks. As new videos
are available, I'll make a short post to the MOTODEV Studio blog with
the links.

Watch the videos now:

Thank you for your interest in MOTODEV Studio for Android. For the
latest announcements on Studio, please visit our blog.

Eric Cloninger

P.S. For added enjoyment or if I get boring, click on the football for
vuvuzela sound effects (while the World Cup lasts or until Google
removes that feature).

http://developer.motorola.com/docstools/library/

http://developer.motorola.com/docstools/motodevstudio/

http://developer.motorola.com/products/

http://community.developer.motorola.com/t5/MOTODEV-Studio-for-Android-Blog/bg-p/MOTODEV_Studio_Blog
