---
category : blog
tags : [MOTODEV, Android]
title: MOTODEV Studio for Android 2.1.1 Update available
hidden: true
---
**NOTE:** This blog post was originally hosted on the **Motorola Developers (MOTODEV)**. site. That site is no longer online. I've made every attempt to preserve the original content with only formatting changes to fit this site.

---

Hello MOTODEV Studio users,

A new version of MOTODEV Studio for Android became available on Monday,
February 28, 2011. This update provides support for Android 3.0
(Honeycomb) SDK and includes version 10 of the Google ADT plugins.

A longer description of the update and how to install it is available on
the MOTODEV discussion boards at
*http://community.developer.motorola.com/t5/MOTODEV-Studio-for-Android/ANN-MOTODEV-Studio-2-1-1-is-av...*

Thank you for using MOTODEV Studio for Android.

Eric Cloninger

Product Line Manager

Motorola Mobility, Inc.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Content of Discussion Board Post &lt;&lt;&lt;&lt;**

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Hello everyone!

I'm pleased to announce that MOTODEV Studio 2.1.1 is available now. This
update has the latest ADT plugins that support the Honeycomb SDK. If you
have already manually installed ADT version 10 from the Google site and
updated your Android SDK using the Android SDK and AVD Manager, then
this update for MOTODEV Studio isn't required. If you are still running
the Gingerbread SDK with ADT version 9, then you may want to apply this
update at your convenience.

There are no major bugs fixed in this update, just support for the
Honeycomb SDK and ADT 10.

You can update MOTODEV Studio with "Help-&gt;Check for Updates". This
will update over the Internet. You can also download the Helios update
package from our downloads site and manually apply the update as a local
archive. Finally, you could download the full installer for version
2.1.1. All three methods will get you to the same point.

If you choose to use "Help-&gt;Check for Updates", be aware that we've
been having problems for weeks communicating with the eclipse.org
servers. It may take 2 or 3 repeated attempts to get all the packages
downloaded. This is an Eclipse issue and not unique to MOTODEV Studio.
This is why we suggest getting the update package for Helios and
manually applying it to your installation.

If you have problems with the installer or update, please post to this
thread. It would help to know what OS you are running and any details
about the messages you are seeing.

Thank you for using MOTODEV Studio.
